VISIT TO AN ENGLISH MONASTERY.
I HAVE always felt a deep interest in monks and
monkery, and an interest that did not commence with
my historical period, but may be traced far back in the
fabulous Radcliffian era. I knew of course that there I was received by a venerable-looking monk, in a
were monks in England, but could never believe them light drab habit reaching to his ankles, who with
to be anything more than imitation monks. An Italian much kindness of manner bade me welcome. He con-
or a Spanish monk I could understand, and, spite of ducted me to an inner room of the Gate-house, where I
the chronic revolution now going on, I had not alto-wrote my name in the visitors' book; and we then
gether withdrawn my faith from a French monk. But crossed a quadrangular court to the Guest-Hall, where
an English monk seemed highly improbable. I was tea and other refreshments had been prepared. While
once invited to visit the Benedictine convent at Ham-gazing round me like a man in a strange country, a
mersmith; but that was quite too much. Hammersmith! swell of music rose suddenly upon my ear.
As if a name like that was compatible with a genuine
convent! Besides, I myself knew the sister of the
abbess; and a nice, kind, frank little lady she was,
who drank tea and spoke prose as like other people as
possible. Such considerations set the Benedictines
completely out of the question; but my curiosity, after
a hard struggle with my unbelief, was at length aroused
by the reports that reached me from time to time
concerning another religious establishment. This was
the monastery of Mount St Bernard in Leicestershire
-a sufficiently probable name, it must be confessed,
notwithstanding its associations with fat cattle and
improved breeds. Perhaps the considerable distance of
the county from my usual place of abode formed an
element in the feasibility of the thing; but at anyrate
I did send a missive to the Fathers, to acquaint them,
in what I was told was the prescribed form, with my
intention to pay them a visit; and half-interested, half-
pooh-poohish, I actually set out for an English monas-
tery. My letter was forwarded through the penny-post;
I travelled myself by rail.
On arriving at the nearest station, which is six miles
from the abbey, I found that the good Fathers had
provided a conveyance for me, drawn by a pony, and
driven by an Irishman. The pony was sedate and slow,
as became a conventual horse; and the Irishman was
in a hurry neither with his words nor actions, but sat
quietly on his box like a monumental figure of
Resignation. The consequence was that the shades of
evening fell thickly around us before our arrival, and
that seen through them the adventure began to look
respectable. I was on my way to a monastery-to the
monastery of St Bernard. I was to eat in its refectory,
to pray at its vespers, to sleep in its dormitory. In
England, it is true, where the people would mob a
Capuchin as they would a Bloomerite; and in a county
where short horns are the chief local celebrities: but
no matter. The evening was dark and preternaturally
silent; and when at length we stopped at a large,
'It is the brethren in the choir,' said the guest-
master, observing me start, who are finishing their
evening devotions. That is the "Salve Regina,” or
hymn to the Virgin; and when I hear its last
cadence, my day is at an end, and my lips must no
more open except in prayer.' When the solemn
chant died away, a bell rang, called the angelus, and
the guest - master and his assistant, a lay-brother,
immediately facing about, sank on their knees before a
fine picture of the Crucifixion. Here they said their
angelus; and the guest-master, who had missed the
service in the choir in consequence of his attendance
upon me, went through his office-apparently a long
ritual before rising from his knees. During this
interval-though hardly feeling that it was germane to
the place and time I was busily engaged, at the
pressing instance of the lay-brother, in discussing a
very interesting tea and delicious omelet.
-
6
When the monk had finished his devotions and I my
refreshment, he laid a book before me, and pointing to
a section, seemed to desire that I should read it. It
proved to be a short lesson on monastic obedience; and
when I had finished, he conducted me to the cloisters,
and through them to the church, a large and gloomy
edifice, lighted only by the dim but ever-burning lamp
of the sanctuary. It was from this building I had heard
the solemn swell of the Salve Regina,' given forth
by the united voices of forty monks; but now our own
footsteps were the only sounds that broke the awful
stillness of the place. The monk, with his muffled
figure, and slow, calm pace, went on before me into the
choir, and knelt before the altar. This appeared to be
the sole purpose for which he had entered the church,
since he could hold no communication with me; and
as I stood behind his motionless figure, and watched
the faint play of the solitary lamp, lost in the profound
darkness beyond, a feeling akin to superstitious terror
took possession of me. I do not know how long the
silent monk remained on his knees, but it must have


## p. 338 (#350) ############################################

338
CHAMBERS'S EDINBURGH JOURNAL.
been a considerable time; and when at length he rose
and glided away as before, I followed him with a
sensation of relief. I followed him out of the church,
across the quadrangle, and into the bedroom where I
was to pass the night; when my conductor, waving
his hand in adieu, left the room, and I found myself
alone.
Alone, in a real monastery, inhabited by real monks
-and all this in England! The idea was not easily
grappled with. At first view the thing was improbable:
but there I was. There was nothing unreal in the fire
that blazed before me, and threw a flickering light into
the room; nor in the roof, with its black rafters; nor
in the small tent-bedstead, with its drab moreen
curtains the livery of the monks themselves; nor in
the prie-dieu, with the prayer-desk by its side, standing
on the uncarpeted floor; nor in the dressing - table,
looking-glass, and stone fender; nor in the pictures of
the saints, that moved and nodded in the fitful light
upon the walls: but somehow the real was mingled
with the unreal; and as I sat staring into the fire, I saw
distinctly the shadows of the Confessional of the Black
Penitents; and once I turned fairly round to look for
that mysterious monk who had appointed to meet
with the young Montorio in a similar place. Perhaps
the reader remembers that as the hour of tryst
approached, Montorio became impatient, and looked
eagerly round the empty room for his expected visitor;
till, on raising his eyes again as the clock struck, he
beheld the monk calmly seated at the table, with his
eyes fixed on the dial.
I sat thus for a considerable time, immersed in wild
but pleasing imaginations, and at length went to bed
and fell asleep. Then my waking thoughts were
repeated in my dreams, and I was following through
some dark corridor a tall, dim, gliding figure, when
suddenly my steps were arrested, and my sleep broken
by the deep tones of a bell. I found it was one o'clock;
and this doubtless was the sound that summoned the
monks to matins. I thought drowsily for a time of the
heroism of their devotion; but sleep was once more
descending on my eyes, when a slow and dolorous
chant stole across the courtyard and through my little
pointed window, and I could distinctly hear the voices
of the monks sending on high their morning-hymn.
The cadence had scarcely died away, when I was again
in the land of dreams; but after a time-it might have
been two or three hours-the deep solemn bell awoke
me anew, sounding, as I was afterwards told, for
prime; and as it continued at intervals I slept no more.
At half-past six I heard a knock at my door; and
on answering Come in,' a strange figure entered,
enveloped in a dark habit, and looking not unlike one
of the witches in 'Macbeth.' He carried a light, a long
brush, and a coal-box; and after having kindled the
fire and swept the hearth, was about to retire, when I
asked him a question concerning the weather. His reply
was merely to put his finger on his lips, and with an
unintelligible growl he left the apartment. I may
mention here, what I learned afterwards, that there
were eight bedchambers, all uniform with the one I
occupied.
Shortly after, the guest-master appeared with a jug
of hot water, and cheerfully wished me good-morning,
hoping I had slept comfortably. He informed me that
breakfast would be ready at half-past eight, but that
high-mass was performed in the church every morning
at half-past seven, at which all the guests were expected
to be present. After breakfast the abbot himself would
come and bid me welcome, and he requested me to be
in my room to receive him. After the guest-master
had taken his departure, I got up and made my toilet,
during which process the bell struck thrice-the premo-
nitory signal, as the guest-master had told me, for mass,
and intended to give the priests time to put on their
After this the bells rang at two intervals,
vestments.
as they did for all the other services, and I proceeded
to the church. I was shewn into the rood - loft, the
place appropriated for the guests, and found two or
three before me. The monks were all in their stalls
reciting a short preliminary office, and the priests were
at the altar, which was prepared with six large lighted
candles and other paraphernalia, for the performance
of high-mass. This, it seems, was a festival-day, and
the abbot was to sing high-mass himself. The office
being over, the priests went into the sacristy, from
which they soon returned in procession, accompanied
by the abbot in his pontificals, including the mitre and
crosier, and preceded by his cross-bearer and acolytes,
or boys bearing lights and incense. Shortly before the
conclusion of mass a monk brought us books interlined
with music, which I perceived were the Processionale
or ritual of processions. Accordingly, at the conclusion
of mass, a procession moved round the church and
cloisters, which the guests, wound up to a pitch of
sentimental excitement at least I can answer for
myself-did not dare to refuse joining. The chanting
continued during the procession until we regained the
church, when a short service was performed at the
altar; and so far as we were concerned the religious
service of the morning was at an end, when we hastened,
cold and hungry, into the guest-hall, where a plain
breakfast awaited us. The only thing worth notice in
the meal was, that it included no meat, that being an
article which is strictly prohibited from entering the
monastery.
-